# Introduction

## Overview of E-TRACS

E-TRACS (Enhanced Tax Revenue Assessment and Collection System) is a
software system designed and developed by Rameses Systems Inc.
(Rameses). The system's primary goal is to automate real property
assessments, business permits licensing and revenue collection
operations of local government units (LGU). Through automation, the LGU
will become more efficient and improve its reporting accuracy. The
system controls the processes through carefully designed business
workflows based on the standard operating procedures and guidelines of
LGUs.

The use of E-TRACS promotes transparency and good governance since it
applies controls for check and balance. Each transaction made is
audited, thus making it difficult to do fraudulent activities.

The standard system can be configured for City, Municipality, or
Province and is composed of three modules as follows:

>Collection (Treasury Revenue Operations)

>Real Property Assessment

>Business Permits and Licensing

E-TRACS can also be configured for satellite offices of the LGUs like
barangays, bus terminals, hospitals, waterworks, markets, etc. This is
called micro installations and is a stripped-down version of E-TRACS.
The objective is to allow transactions to be collected. The transaction
happens to reduce data capture in the main office and ensure on-time
collection and remittance.

E-TRACS is designed as a modular platform and runs on the ***Osiris 2
Enterprise Framework***, a proprietary framework of Rameses. The
platform hosts small applications called *plug-ins.* Being a multi-user
system, the user can only access these applications if they have the
proper authorization and permissions. Because transactions in the system
are sensitive and require accountability, E-TRACS has a comprehensive
security model. Users are assigned roles and permissions that can be
further customized per user. Data passing through the network are
encrypted. Each terminal connecting to the server must be registered by
the system administrator. Users are required to change passwords from
time to time. Besides system-level security, it can also be
application-specific; for example, collectors cannot perform collection
if they do not have cashbook defined and they do not have accountable
forms on hand.  

E-TRACS aims to elevate innovation in tax revenue collection to provide
an efficient and transparent local government unit and improve the
quality of service to taxpayers. 