## Cloud Technology

Cloud technology is an essential development in the computing space.
Although the concept is not entirely new, the tools make it easy for
developers to manage virtual data centers. It also lowers the typically
high administration costs. This enables one to focus on the solutions
and not on maintenance. For example, additional server resources can be
added dynamically if high performance is needed at the click of a
button.

Allowing taxpayers to transact online like making payments or inquire
about the status of their transactions, modernizes LGU operations. In
order to do this at present, an LGU needs a huge investment in data
centers and monthly leased lines plus additional human resources to
develop applications and monitor transactions and security. The cost
will not outweigh the benefits unless an LGU is probably big enough and
their constituents technologically savvy enough like large cities. The
following diagram shows the cloud topology of ETRACS.

<img src="images\image3.png" style="width:5.34375in;height:3.33333in" />

Figure 3. Cloud Architecture

E-TRACS 2.5 was designed to be integrated with the cloud which only
requires a sufficient internet connection and a small subscription fee
depending on the cloud service. This is not compulsory; however, the
service is available in E-TRACS should the LGU wish to avail. The
advantage of this solution is that all data still resides in the server
of the LGU and not on a central server. A *special software* enables
E-TRACS to “talk” to the cloud applications that receive a request for
information. If there is no connectivity, the server can send the reply
later when the connection is up and running. The services below show
examples of cloud solutions for E-TRACS:

\- SMS (Text messaging ) capability to send notifications or receive
inquiries from taxpayers through text

\- Online inquiry of real property status and billing

\- Online application for business

\- LGU to LGU payment (applicable to province and municipalities to
allow a taxpayer to pay real property from another LGU)

\- Real-time approval of tax declarations (applicable for province and
municipality)  

\- Online payment 

This enables business-to-government, government-to-government, and
citizen-to-government transactions to be possible. Another advantage is
that LGUs do not have to worry about integration with partners, which
requires tedious programming and testing because integration is only
done once from the cloud. Any partner integrated into the cloud will
automatically be available to all E-TRACS users. For example, when
integrating with a bank, one will have to read the banks’ specifications
and write code for it and do testing for acceptance. If the LGU does
this by themselves, they will have to do it for every bank they want to
integrate with because they have different specifications. On the other
hand, if a bank is integrated with the cloud or any payment partner for
that matter, this will imimagestely be available to all E-TRACS users
without the LGU doing anything.     

There have been many IT initiatives and huge investments made by the
national government in the past and present, but because of the
complexity and lack of product, having comprehensive, effective
e-government is still far from being realized. E-TRACS is not only a
tool to improve the collection of LGUs; it is a product with a vision.
By enabling the capability to transact directly with the LGUs, ease of
doing business will improve, and corruption can be lessened or perhaps,
even eliminated. The E-TRACS mission is to innovate the government, one
LGU at a time.  