# Rules Management

## Overview

Before proceeding with the other transactions in ETRACS, it is important
first to discuss Rules. One of the components that make ETRACS special
and the only one of its kind is the use of *Business Rules* to customize
the system to fit the LGU’s requirements. The business rules are
executed in a special software called a **Rule Engine**. Some of the
application of business rules in ETRACS are as follows:

-   Calculating taxes and fees in business assessments

-   Determining requirements in business

-   Compute Billing and calculating penalties

-   Customization of workflow

Before when one wants to customize the system they must have a ready
programmer who can edit the code. This is time consuming, error-prone
and very difficult to maintain. In ETRACS, customization is done by
authoring of rules through an intuitive user interface. Before rules can
be created however, the rule author must know the behavior of rules and
its effects. Rules can be simple or complex depending on the
requirements of the LGU. Rule authoring requires logic reasoning and
those will author rules must know how to interpret the rules and can
translate or express it using the rules interface. Ideally, rules should
be done by the domain expert, i.e. the one knowledgeable about the
ordinances for example. However rule authoring requires special computer
operation, that’s why it is recommended that rule authoring be assigned
to an IT personnel with approval by the domain expert. If the domain
expert is computer savvy enough, then they could also do it themselves.

## What are Rules

A rule engine is a special software that separates business logic from
application code and classified as an expert system, a branch of
artificial intelligence that aids in the decision making process. The
rules resemble a language that can be clearly understood by a normal
business person. The rules are relatively easy to understand and is
intuitive. It is composed of two parts - a **Condition** and a
**Consequence** or **Action**. Pieces of information called **Facts**
are evaluated in the Condition part, known as **Constraints**, such that
if all constraints are true, the related action will execute. The
following is a pseudo example of a rule construct:

    when (condition)
        Application (type is “NEW” )
        Line of Business (classification is “Manufacturer”)
        CAPITAL is provided for said Line of Business

    then (consequence or action)
        Add “BUSINESS TAX” using formula: “CAPITAL \* 0.30 \* 0.01” for the
        said line of business

This piece of rule is an excerpt from the Business Assessment Rules. In
simple terms, this means if an application is for a new business, and
has a line of business which is classified as a manufacturer and the
capital is provided for this line of business, then we add a business
tax where amount is equal to CAPITAL \* 0.30 \* 0.01 and must be applied
per line of business.

In business applications, there are sometimes more than one line of
business for a business. For example there is an application that has
two lines of business, one manufacturer and the other retailer, only the
manufacturer in this case will be computed for business tax because the
retailer does not match the condition above. For another example, if the
application being evaluated is for a Renewal application, the rule above
will not fire because it explicitly states it is applied only for New.
So in other words, for a rule to execute, all constraints in the
condition must evaluate to true. If even one is not true, the rule will
not execute.

By creating many rules, the desired effect will be completed. There
could be many rules or few rules depending on the area being addressed.
Rule engines are quite powerful because it is designed to execute very
fast no matter how many there are and that makes it special. However,
one needs to be careful because sometimes there are overlapping rules
and the rule author might have difficulty tracing and correcting these
rules to eliminate the side effects.

## Rule Execution

Rules operate on data called *Facts*. A fact is a structured holder of
data that is evaluated by the rule engine. When authoring rules, we
specify which facts we want to evaluate. Data from the application
inputted by the user are sent to the server. Before data is processed by
the rule engine, it is first segregated into facts which becomes the
input data for the rule engine. The engine searches for rules that match
the given facts and executes those that match to produce an output.

<img src="images\image123.png" style="width:3.63517in;height:2.79024in" />

Figure 20 Rule Execution

## Rule Groups and Salience

In order to avoid possible complex non-terminating rules or “*endless
loops”*, the rule groups are provided. Rule groups are like compartments
wherein the input is processed then output is generated in a straight
chaining manner. The output of one chain becomes the input of the next
chain so on and so forth until we get to the last before it ends
processing.

<img src="images\image124.png" style="width:3.50717in;height:1.90329in" />

Salience refers to the order in which rules executes. If there are two
rules in the same rule group, the one with a higher salience will always
execute first. The general behavior of ETRACS is overriding, so the
lower salience or the last rule executed will always prevail. So if you
want some rule to execute in general, i.e. one that might be applied to
all, make the salience a very high number. If you want more specific,
make salience a lower value. To understand this further, refer to the
application of rules in the business and real property sections.