## Organization

ETRACS is not a stand-alone system. In fact, the idea is to allow ETRACS
to be networkable to other ETRACS servers. Thus the root organization of
ETRACS refers to the main organization or the LGU. Other Organizations
include the barangays, terminals, hospitals etc. For a province, the
root organization is the province and sub organizations would be the
municipalities. So the system will know what organization the user wants
to login to, the org name must be specified in the client code in the
login screen. (See screen below). If not specified, the root
organization will be used.

<img src="images\image37.png" style="width:3.74628in;height:1.61458in" />

Figure 4 Login screen Client code

## Updating Organization

During installation the type of LGU was specified. Different LGU types
have different ways of managing. To edit the LGU information, go to
**Organization** in the home panel. If this was for a city setup, you
will be able to see the city and barangay.

## Managing City Organization

### Editing City Information

If the setup was for City, click on City to open the screen below. Edit
the necessary information. Click save when complete.

<img src="images\image38.png" style="width:2.67517in;height:2.52251in" />

### Adding barangays

To edit barangay for city, click on the Barangay under Organization. You
wll see the barangay listing.

<img src="images\image39.png" style="width:5.07517in;height:1.07263in" />

To view the barangay, highlight and click on the specific barangay and
edit the necessary information.

<img src="images\image40.png" style="width:3.07517in;height:2.41454in" />

## Managing Province Organization

### Editing Province Information

If the province setup was chosen, click on Province under organization.
The following screen below should appear. Edit the necessary information
and click save when completed.

<img src="images\image41.png" style="width:3.23517in;height:2.0904in" />

## Managing Municipality

Under the municipality, view the municipality list. Click on New to add
municipality. Edit the necessary information and click update when
finished.

<img src="images\image42.png" style="width:3.27517in;height:2.34726in" />

### Editing Barangays

Add first the municipality before adding barangays. That is because
barangays are associated with the municipality. Click on New to add
barangay. Specify the municipality to which the barangay belongs.

<img src="images\image43.png" style="width:2.85705in;height:2.24in" />

## Managing Municipality Organization

### Editing Municipality and Province

If the selected setup is for municipality, the root org would be
municipality. Go to organization and edit Municipality. Edit the
necessary information for municipality as well as for the province.

<img src="images\image44.png" style="width:4.06945in;height:2.648in" />

To edit the province information, click the Province tab. Edit also the
necessary information for the province.

<img src="images\image45.png" style="width:3.53917in;height:2.63364in" />

### Adding Barangays

Similar to the procedure in the preceding sections, edit also the
barangay for the municipality.

<img src="images\image46.png" style="width:2.87517in;height:2.16267in" />
