## Managing Roles

Roles are already pre-defined in the system (as part of the developer’s
design) and there are already actions related to the role. To view these
roles, click on User Groups from the main screen.

<img src="images\image48.png" style="width:5.34375in;height:2.40625in" />

Figure 6 User Groups Management Screen

## Managing Security Groups

Security group is new addition in version 2.5. This allows the user to
customize permissions for a role. If the administrator is managing a
huge organization, this grouping is a time-saver for users having same
roles but different access permissions. There are two ways to create
security groups. One is through User Groups and the other is by opening
the record of the user and adding security groups from there. To add
security groups, click the User Groups from the home screen. Select the
Domain and select the appropriate role you want to create security
groups for. (See image above). On the right pane of the window, click
**Manage Security Group**. This should display the following screen:

<img src="images\image49.png" style="width:2.90034in;height:2.19792in" />

Figure 7 Security Group

Click on Add and enter a name for your security group. Then on the
permissions, check or uncheck which are applicable. Click on OK to save
this security group.

## Managing Users

A **user** is someone who is registered in the system. A registered user
can then be referenced in any transactions and processes. To be able to
access the system a user must be authenticated and identified first by
the system. To achieve this, users must have a username and a password.
The username might be visible but the password must be private to the
user. Only the admin can create users. To create a user Click on the
Users in the home screen, then click New. This should display the screen
below:

### Creating User Accounts

## <img src="images\image50.png" style="width:2.20343in;height:1.46375in" />

Figure 8 New User Screen

## 

The fields that are marked with \* are required fields and must be
filled up. The user txn code is a special code that is used in some
parts of the system. This is a short text, preferably a user’s initial.
If specified, this will appear as prefix in some transactions so the
transaction will know it is prepared by that user. For example, in
collection remittance, a numbering system that includes the user name is
great because they can imimagestely pinpoint that remittance is created
by that user.

Username must be unique so duplicates cannot occur. Once completed, the
user info will be displayed.

<img src="images\image51.png" style="width:3.09939in;height:2.22427in" />

Figure 9 User Info screen

### Assigning Roles


To add a role for the user, open the user record as above and click on
Add button below.

<img src="images\image52.png" style="width:3.07856in;height:1.62002in" />

Figure 10 Assign Roles Screen


On clicking Add, the following screen will show prompting you to add a
role.

<img src="images\image53.png" style="width:3.97899in;height:2.19792in" />

Figure 11 User group screen

**User Name**: refers to the name of the member.

**User Group**: A combination of domain and role. 

---
**Tip:** To speed up
lookup, type the domain in the User group textbox then press enter.
---
**Security Group**: If specified, only the allowed permissions will be
accessible.

**Org Name:** If specified, this authorization will only be applicable
for the organization specified.

### Customizing Permissions

ETRACS allows finer permission that is applicable on a per-user level.
To do this, open the assigned usergroup for the user, then on the
security group field, click the button to display the permissions for
the security group. See screen below

<img src="images\image54.png" style="width:3.9375in;height:1.34375in" />

Figure 12 Customizing permissions

### Reset Passwords

In case a user forgets their password, the admin is the only one who can
reset it. ETRACS does not have a capability to recover passwords because
password encryption cannot be reversed. To do this, login as admin and
go to the Users Record, then click the Reset Password. Specify a
password and let the user know the password you specified. Ask the user
to login using their username and password specified. If successful, the
system will prompt the user to provide another password.
