## Individual Entity

### Adding an Entity

To add an individual entity, click the Main Menu and select **Master
Data** &gt; **Entities &gt; Individual** *(See diagram below)*. This
will display a listing of individual entities. Click on New button to
add a new record. A much quicker method to create an entity is to go to
the quick launcher and type in **TP001.**

<img src="images\image59.png" style="width:1.71875in;height:1.7258in" />

Figure 14 Entity Main Menu

The new individual entity initial screen will be displayed. It asks
first for basic information like lastname, firstname, middlename
birthdate and gender. Fields marked with \* are required. Once
completed, click on the Next button.

<img src="images\image60.png" style="width:2.77674in;height:1.58102in" />

Figure 15 New Individual Entity

The system first attempts to check for duplicate matches if any. If
there are no matches the system imimagestely directs you to the screen to
complete the information.

<img src="images\image61.png" style="width:4.4717in;height:2.65431in" />

Most fields are input boxes and filled by typing in text. The suggest
controls like religion, citizenship and profession displays existing
information which you can simply choose from. The address field is a
special entry because address is not a simple plain text and there are
several uses for it in the system. To edit the address, click on the
address editor
<img src="images\image62.png" style="width:0.2323in;height:0.17164in" />
next to the address box to display a popup entry. Choose the type of
address you want to add

<img src="images\image63.png" style="width:2.57618in;height:0.37894in" />

Local refers to local address (within the LGU) so barangay is specified.
If it is outside the LGU, use non-local.

To make the system more accurate, it is suggested to add photos of the
person so that in case there is a possible duplicate entry, it will be
much easier to distinguish with the picture. There are two ways you can
add photos, by uploading file or by capturing using a webcam. If you
have a webcam available, try it first before implementing if it works.
This feature has not undergone thorough testing of different webcams at
this time.

Once completed, click on Save and the system will assign the entity no.
This is the unique identifier of the person.

### Checking for Duplicates

Having a unique single record of a person in the system is ideal because
it helps in referencing transactions and improves the quality of the
records. If this can be achieved, we will be able to know the
transactions for a particular person which can shared across domains for
example â€“ real property information might be important in business
permits and licensing if we are investigating if they reported the
correct amount. Therefore, duplicate entries are not desirable because
there is no way a system will be able to reference it. However this is
simpler said than done because during day to day operations, especially
during peak times, misspellings or wrong entries could occur.

To reduce possibility of duplicates, it is highly recommended that an
LGU provide a separate department or personnel who will ensure that
possible duplicates are checked before adding it in the database.
However, because most LGUs cannot provide this at the moment, there is a
built-in mechanism provided in the system to check for possible
duplicate matches. It checks for possible matches by comparing the
strings and providing a score of exactness. The higher score means
higher probability being the same. A 100% will give an exact match for
lastname and firstname. This gives a chance for review and alerts the
person entering the record.

<img src="images\image64.png" style="width:4.29168in;height:2.20895in" />

If the encoder is sure that this is another person, they can proceed by
clicking on Add as new Entity to ignore the message. However, if it is
an exact match, the system will not allow it to continue. In this case,
a higher authority is needed having ENTITY.APPROVER role to encode the
record.

### Updating Records

When updating records, we need to search first the record we want to
update. Go to the Individual Entities list **Master Data** &gt;
**Entities &gt; Individual.** This will display the list of individual
entities shown below:

<img src="images\image65.png" style="width:5.08364in;height:1.12338in" />

Figure 16 Individual Entity Listing

Use the search box in the upper right to search for the records based on
the name. To open the record, highlight the record then click Open or
double click the item. This will open the entity record.

<img src="images\image66.png" style="width:4.7464in;height:2.61194in" />

Figure 17 Entity Information

To edit the record, click on `Edit`. This will display the editing screen.
Edit the necessary entries and click on Save to commit the data. In case
you want to edit the name, click on `Edit Name`. This is done because when
editing the name, we need to run the matching records again similar to
adding a new entry to ensure that the new information does not have
duplicate matches. Edit is allowed provided you have sufficient
permission.

On the left side are transactions related to the person. It lists
businesses owned, leased buildings, real properties owned or they are
part owner and payments. Since ETRACS is a pluggable platform, other
information might be coming from other plug-in modules. This will give a
complete picture of the transactions for a taxpayer.